Doc/taipy#260 - taipy run CLI (#548)
Avaiga/taipy-doc: docs/manuals/cli/run.md

# Run application in Taipy CLI

Assume that you have a "main.py" file containing your Taipy application.

> To start the Taipy application, you can run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start the Taipy application, you can run:
```

```console

> $ python main.py

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ taipy run main.py
```

Author: Here, I'm explaining that the user can run main.py with python CLI like normal Python file.
The next paragraph discusses about the drawback of it.

```

> However, when working with command-line arguments, Taipy supported arguments can be confused with
> arguments of other libraries or your application's arguments. To avoid this confusion, Taipy CLI
> provides a run command to run your Taipy application, supporting both Taipy supported and unsupported arguments.

Reviewer 2: What do you think of the following suggestion?

```suggestion
!!! note

    An alternative way to run your application is to use the Python command directly.
    
    ```console
    $ python main.py
    ```
    
    However, we recommend using the `taipy run` command, which is more robust with command line arguments. As explained in the next section, it avoids any argument conflict in case another library or your interpreter uses the same argument as Taipy.

```

Author: This makes sense

> ## With Taipy supported arguments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## With Taipy arguments
```

> Taipy CLI will parse Taipy supported arguments and pass the rest of the arguments to your Taipy application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Taipy CLI will parse internal arguments (interpreted by Taipy) and pass the others to your Taipy application.
```

> Taipy CLI will parse Taipy supported arguments and pass the rest of the arguments to your Taipy application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taipy CLI will parse Taipy supported arguments and pass the rest to your Taipy application.
```

> To display the list of Taipy supported arguments, you can run `taipy help run` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To display the list of Taipy supported arguments, you can run the `taipy help run` command.
```

> To display the list of Taipy supported arguments, you can run the `taipy help run` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To display the list of available Taipy arguments, you can run the `taipy help run` command.
```

Alternatively, you can use the `--help` or `-h` options by running `taipy run --help` or `taipy run -h`.

```console
$ taipy help run
usage: taipy run [-h] [--port [PORT]] [--host [HOST]] [--ngrok-token [NGROK_TOKEN]]
                 [--webapp-path [WEBAPP_PATH]] [--debug | --no-debug]
                 [--use-reloader | --no-reloader] [--development | --experiment [VERSION] |
                 --production [VERSION]] [--force | --no-force]
                 application_main_file {external-args} ...

positional arguments:
  application_main_file

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --port [PORT], -P [PORT]
                        Specify server port
  --host [HOST], -H [HOST]
                        Specify server host
  --ngrok-token [NGROK_TOKEN]
                        Specify NGROK Authtoken
  --webapp-path [WEBAPP_PATH]

>                         The path to the web app to be used. The default is the webapp directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                        The path to the web app to be used. The default is the web app directory
```

                        under gui in the Taipy GUI package directory.
  --debug               Turn on debug
  --no-debug            Turn off debug
  --use-reloader        Auto reload on code changes
  --no-reloader         No reload on code changes

>   --development         When execute Taipy application in `development` mode, all entities from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --development         When executing the Taipy application in `development` mode, all entities from
```

>                         the previous development version will be deleted before running new Taipy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                        the previous development version will be deleted before running the new Taipy
```

                        application.
  --experiment [VERSION]

>                         When execute Taipy application in `experiment` mode, the current Taipy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                        When executing the Taipy application in `experiment` mode, the current Taipy
```

>                         application is saved to a new version. If version name already exists,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                        application is saved to a new version. If the version name already exists,
```

>                         check for compatibility with current Python Config and run the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                        check for compatibility with the current Python Config and run the
```

                        application. Without being specified, the version number will be a random
                        string.
  --production [VERSION]

>                         When execute in `production` mode, the current version is used in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                        When executed in `production` mode, the current version is used in
```

                        production. All production versions should have the same configuration and

>                         share all entities. Without being specified, the latest version is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                        share all entities. The latest version is only used if specified.
```

  --force               Force override the configuration of the version if existed and run the
                        application. Default to False.
  --no-force            Stop the application if any Config conflict exists.

subcommands:
  {external-args}

>     external-args       Arguments defined after this keyword will be considered as external
>                         arguments to be passed to the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    external-args       Arguments defined after this keyword will be considered external
                        arguments to be passed to the application.
```

```

> To start your application in the Taipy CLI, you can run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start your application in the Taipy CLI, you can run:
```

```console
$ taipy run main.py
```

> You can also provide Taipy supported arguments to the run command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also provide Taipy arguments to the run command.
```

```console
$ taipy run main.py --port 8080 --experiment "0.1" --debug
```

In this example, your Taipy application will be started in experiment mode with version name "0.1"

> with debug on, and on the port "8080" of the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with debug on and on the port "8080" of the server.
```

!!! info

    By providing the arguments to the taipy run command, you are specifying that these arguments are

>     Taipy's arguments. Your application and other libraries would not be able to use these arguments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Taipy's arguments. Your application and other libraries would not use these arguments. To pass arguments to other libraries, please refer to the next section.
```

> ## With Taipy unsupported arguments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## With external arguments for other libraries
```

> Assume that the "main.py" file containing some custom arguments for your application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume that the "main.py" file contains some custom arguments for your application:
```

- `--host`: specify the host of the data server to read from.
- `--port`: specify the port of the data server to read from.
- `--debug`: turn on debug mode on your data processing pipeline.

> In a normal Python CLI, your application arguments will conflict with Taipy supported arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a standard Python CLI, your application arguments will conflict with Taipy supported arguments.
```

Passing the host of your data server would also change the host of your Taipy application, which
is not a good problem to have.

To solve this problem, Taipy CLI provides the "external-args" subcommand to pass Taipy unsupported
arguments to your application.

```console
$ taipy run main.py --port 8080 external-args --host data.server.com --port 2714 --debug
```

In this example, your Taipy application will be started on *localhost:8080* with debug off since we
do not specify debug mode for Taipy. Meanwhile, your data processing pipeline will be reading data

> from *data.server.com:2714*, and the pipeline will be run with debug on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from *data.server.com:2714*, the pipeline will run with debug.
```

> In this example, your Taipy application will be started on *localhost:8080* with debug off since we
> do not specify debug mode for Taipy. Meanwhile, your data processing pipeline will be reading data
> from *data.server.com:2714*, the pipeline will run with debug.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, your Taipy application will be started on *localhost:8080* with *debug* off since we
do not specify `debug` parameter for Taipy. Meanwhile, your application will run with `debug` parameter and read data from *data.server.com:2714*.
```

# Run application in Taipy CLI

Assume that you have a "main.py" file containing your Taipy application.
To start the Taipy application, you can run:

```console
$ taipy run main.py
```

> !!! note

Reviewer 3: =>

"!!! note "Using the 'python' command"

Author: ```suggestion
!!! note "Using the 'python' command"
```

>     An alternative way to run your application is to use the Python command directly.

Reviewer 3: "use the Python command" => "use the \`python\` command"
"command directly" => "command, which runs the Python interpreter."

Author: ```suggestion
    An alternative way to run your application is to use the `python` command, which runs the Python interpreter.
```

    ```console
    $ python main.py
    ```
    However, when working with command-line arguments, Taipy arguments can be confused with arguments
    of other libraries or your application's arguments. To avoid this confusion, we recommend
    using the `taipy run` command, which is more robust in avoiding any command-line argument conflict.

> ## With Taipy arguments

Reviewer 3: May be you want to add xrefs to the Taipy Core, Taipy GUI and Taipy REST specific command line options help pages?

Author: That makes sense. Will do.
